# Access

## Key Concepts

### Identity and Access Management (IAM)

Ensures the right people and services have the right access to cloud resources. Access is mainly done through `Azure Role-Based Access Control (RBAC)`.

#### RBAC

Every permission in Azure is a "Role Assignment". RBAC is incredibly important as it allows you to have permissions on your Azure Resources.

> Azure RBAC is used to manage Azure Resources. [ie. This RBAC gives you permission to read/write to the DB.]

- `Security Principal` - The entity requesting access
  - `User` - Individual account for a person.
  - `Group` - Collection of users managed as one unit.
  - `Service Principal`
    - Identity used by applications or automated tools to access protected resources.
    - `Client ID` - Associated ID (username)
    - `Client Secret` - Secret key for authentication (password)
    - `Tenant ID` - Represents the organization it is part of. Also known as 'Entra Id'
  - `Managed Identity`
    - Identity automatically generated by Azure and tied to a specific resource. No key generation needed (Azure handles it). Recommended when possible.

#### Microsoft Entra Roles (AD Roles)

> Entra Roles are used to manage People & Identity (Users, Groups, Licenses) [ie. This Entra role gives you permission to reset the password]

A specific set of permissions inside a service that controls what roles a user can do to the identity provider. As a normal everyday employee, we normally don't worry about this one. This is mainly for administration to worry about.

#### Microsoft Entra ID Group

> Entra ID Group is used to organize users and assign them specific RBAC permissions depending on their role.

Entra ID Group is fundamentally different from Entra Roles. While Entra Roles manage user permissions (think of it as an admin changing your permissions), Entra ID Group is a categorization of certain permissions (RBAC, Entra Role, etc) assigned to that specific group.
